docs/src/index.md, before:

# DeviceLayout.jl

DeviceLayout.jl is a [Julia](http://julialang.org) package for computer-aided design (CAD) of quantum integrated circuits developed at the AWS Center for Quantum Computing. The package supports the generation of 2D layouts and 3D models of complex devices using a low-level geometry interface together with a high-level schematic-driven workflow.

## Why use this package?

DeviceLayout.jl provides functionality for 2D/2.5D device CAD, including generation of GDS layouts for fabrication as well as 3D models for electromagnetic simulation. Package development aims to allow designers to produce and iterate on layouts quickly and easily, with particular attention to scalability in support of larger quantum processors and growing, collaborative teams. Key features include:

  - Geometry-level layout with rich geometry types like polygons, ellipses, and paths
  - Schematic-driven layout, allowing users to manage complexity by maintaining separate levels of abstraction for component geometry and device connectivity
  - 3D modeling and meshing (via [Open CASCADE Technology](https://dev.opencascade.org/) and [Gmsh](https://gmsh.info/)), which takes advantage of rich geometry and schematic information to improve meshing and allow programmatic generation of configurations for simulation software (like [*Palace*](https://awslabs.github.io/palace/stable/), an open-source tool for electromagnetic finite-element analysis also developed at the AWS CQC)
  - Built-in support for common elements of superconducting quantum processors like coplanar waveguides, air bridges, and flip-chip assemblies
  - GDSII and graphics format export for 2D layouts, as well as various standard formats for 3D models and meshes
  - Explicit unit support without sacrificing performance
  - Users write code in Julia, a scientific programming language that combines high performance and ease of use
  - The [Julia package manager](https://pkgdocs.julialang.org/v1/) offers portability and reproducibility for design projects in collaborations of any size
  - Teams can manage their own process design kit as a set of Julia packages in a private registry, leveraging the package manager for versioning process technologies and components

This documentation includes some examples of what you can do with DeviceLayout.jl, including a [17-qubit quantum processor](./examples/qpu17.md) and [simulation of a transmon and resonator with Palace](./examples/singletransmon.md).

```@raw html
<div style="display: flex; justify-content: center; gap: 20px">
<a href="examples/qpu17"> <img src="examples/qpu17_falsecolor.png" style="margin-right: 100px; height: 288px; width: auto; object-fit: contain;"/> </a>
<a href="examples/singletransmon"> <img src="assets/single_transmon_mesh.png" style="height: 288px; width: auto; object-fit: contain;"/> </a>
</div>
```

## Installation

You can follow [these instructions](https://julialang.org/install/) to install Julia. We support Julia v1.10 or later.

From Julia, install DeviceLayout.jl using the built-in package manager, [Pkg.jl](https://pkgdocs.julialang.org/v1/getting-started/):

```r
julia> ] # Pressing ] in the Julia REPL activates the Pkg REPL mode
pkg> activate . # Activates an environment in the current directory
pkg> add DeviceLayout # Adds DeviceLayout.jl to the environment
```

We recommend [using an environment for each project](https://julialang.github.io/Pkg.jl/v1/environments/) rather than installing packages in the default environment.

You will likely also want to add FileIO.jl to your environment:

```r
pkg> add FileIO
```

Then, after running `using FileIO`, you can use the `save` function to write output to a file with your chosen format, as in examples throughout the documentation.

## Quick start

Let's mock up a transmission line with two launchers and some bridges across the
transmission line. We begin by making a cell with a rectangle in it:

```@example 1
using DeviceLayout, DeviceLayout.PreferredUnits
using FileIO # You will have to add FileIO to the environment if you haven't already

cr = Cell("rect", nm)
r = centered(Rectangle(20μm, 40μm))
render!(cr, r, GDSMeta(1, 0))
save("units_rectonly.svg", cr; layercolors=Dict(0 => (0, 0, 0, 1), 1 => (1, 0, 0, 1)));
nothing; # hide
```

```@raw html
<img src="units_rectonly.svg" style="width:1in;"/>
```

A rectangle made with a width and height parameter will default to having its lower-left
corner at the origin. [`centered`](@ref) will return a rectangle that is centered about the origin
instead.

The rectangle is then rendered into the cell. `GDSMeta(1)` indicates the target GDSII layer. You
can also specify the GDSII datatype as a second argument, e.g. `GDSMeta(1,0)`.

In another cell, we make the transmission line with some launchers on both ends:

```@example 1
p = Path(μm)
sty = launch!(p)
straight!(p, 500μm, sty)
turn!(p, π / 2, 150μm)
straight!(p, 500μm)
launch!(p)
cp = Cell("pathonly", nm)
render!(cp, p, GDSMeta(0))
save("units_pathonly.svg", cp; layercolors=Dict(0 => (0, 0, 0, 1), 1 => (1, 0, 0, 1)));
nothing; # hide
```

```@raw html
<img src="units_pathonly.svg" style="width: 3in;"/>
```

Finally, let's put bridges across the feedline:

```@example 1
turnidx = Int((length(p) + 1) / 2) - 1 # the first straight segment of the path
simplify!(p, turnidx .+ (0:2))
attach!(
    p,
    CellReference(cr, Point(0.0μm, 0.0μm)),
    (40μm):(40μm):((pathlength(p[turnidx])) - 40μm),
    i=turnidx
)
c = Cell("decoratedpath", nm)
render!(c, p, GDSMeta(0))
save("units.svg", c; layercolors=Dict(0 => (0, 0, 0, 1), 1 => (1, 0, 0, 1)));
nothing; # hide
```

```@raw html
<img src="units.svg" style="width: 3in;"/>
```

You can save a `Cell` to a GDS file for lithography or an SVG for vector graphics by using
`save` with an appropriate extension:

```julia
save("/path/to/myoutput.gds", c)
save("/path/to/myoutput.svg", c)
```

SVG support is experimental, but it is used in generating the graphics you see in this documentation. If you use [the Julia REPL](https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/stdlib/REPL/#The-Julia-REPL) (read-eval-print loop) provided by the extension [Julia for Visual Studio Code](https://www.julia-vscode.org/),
rendered cells are previewed in a separate tab. If you use Jupyter/IJulia, rendered
cells are automatically returned as a result.

## Performance and workflow tips

[KLayout](https://www.klayout.de/) is a free (GPL v2+) GDS viewer/editor. It watches
its open files for changes, making it easy to use as a fast previewer alongside DeviceLayout.jl.

The recommended IDE for Julia is [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the [Julia for Visual Studio Code extension](https://www.julia-vscode.org/).

Since Julia has a just-in-time compiler, the first time code is executed may take much
longer than subsequent times in the same Julia session. This means that a lot of time will be wasted repeating
compilations if you run your DeviceLayout.jl code by calling a script from the command line each time,
like you might in other languages.

For readability, it is best to split up your CAD code into functions that have clearly named
inputs and perform a well-defined task. It is also best to avoid writing statements in global scope.
In other words, put most of your code in a function. Your CAD script should ideally look like the following:

```julia
# mycad.jl
using DeviceLayout, DeviceLayout.PreferredUnits, FileIO

function subroutine1()
    # render some thing
end

function subroutine2()
    # render some other thing
end

function main()
    # my cad code goes here: do all of the things
    subroutine1()
    subroutine2()
    return save("/path/to/out.gds", ...)
end

main() # execute main() at end of script.
```

In a typical workflow, you'll have a text editor open alongside a Julia REPL. You'll save the above code in a file (e.g., `mycad.jl`) and then run `include("mycad.jl")` from the Julia REPL to generate your pattern.
You'll iteratively revise `mycad.jl` and save your changes.
Subsequent runs should be several times faster than the first, if you `include` the file again from the same Julia session.

If you use a REPL started by the Julia for VS Code extension (`Alt+J Alt+O`), then objects that can be displayed graphically (`Cells` and `CoordinateSystems`) will be shown in a separate tab.

Commit message:

Make render functions return CS, explain VS Code display more

docs/src/index.md, after:

# DeviceLayout.jl

DeviceLayout.jl is a [Julia](http://julialang.org) package for computer-aided design (CAD) of quantum integrated circuits developed at the AWS Center for Quantum Computing. The package supports the generation of 2D layouts and 3D models of complex devices using a low-level geometry interface together with a high-level schematic-driven workflow.

## Why use this package?

DeviceLayout.jl provides functionality for 2D/2.5D device CAD, including generation of GDS layouts for fabrication as well as 3D models for electromagnetic simulation. Package development aims to allow designers to produce and iterate on layouts quickly and easily, with particular attention to scalability in support of larger quantum processors and growing, collaborative teams. Key features include:

  - Geometry-level layout with rich geometry types like polygons, ellipses, and paths
  - Schematic-driven layout, allowing users to manage complexity by maintaining separate levels of abstraction for component geometry and device connectivity
  - 3D modeling and meshing (via [Open CASCADE Technology](https://dev.opencascade.org/) and [Gmsh](https://gmsh.info/)), which takes advantage of rich geometry and schematic information to improve meshing and allow programmatic generation of configurations for simulation software (like [*Palace*](https://awslabs.github.io/palace/stable/), an open-source tool for electromagnetic finite-element analysis also developed at the AWS CQC)
  - Built-in support for common elements of superconducting quantum processors like coplanar waveguides, air bridges, and flip-chip assemblies
  - GDSII and graphics format export for 2D layouts, as well as various standard formats for 3D models and meshes
  - Explicit unit support without sacrificing performance
  - Users write code in Julia, a scientific programming language that combines high performance and ease of use
  - The [Julia package manager](https://pkgdocs.julialang.org/v1/) offers portability and reproducibility for design projects in collaborations of any size
  - Teams can manage their own process design kit as a set of Julia packages in a private registry, leveraging the package manager for versioning process technologies and components

This documentation includes some examples of what you can do with DeviceLayout.jl, including a [17-qubit quantum processor](./examples/qpu17.md) and [simulation of a transmon and resonator with Palace](./examples/singletransmon.md).

```@raw html
<div style="display: flex; justify-content: center; gap: 20px">
<a href="examples/qpu17"> <img src="examples/qpu17_falsecolor.png" style="margin-right: 100px; height: 288px; width: auto; object-fit: contain;"/> </a>
<a href="examples/singletransmon"> <img src="assets/single_transmon_mesh.png" style="height: 288px; width: auto; object-fit: contain;"/> </a>
</div>
```

## Installation

You can follow [these instructions](https://julialang.org/install/) to install Julia. We support Julia v1.10 or later.

From Julia, install DeviceLayout.jl using the built-in package manager, [Pkg.jl](https://pkgdocs.julialang.org/v1/getting-started/):

```r
julia> ] # Pressing ] in the Julia REPL activates the Pkg REPL mode
pkg> activate . # Activates an environment in the current directory
pkg> add DeviceLayout # Adds DeviceLayout.jl to the environment
```

We recommend [using an environment for each project](https://julialang.github.io/Pkg.jl/v1/environments/) rather than installing packages in the default environment.

You will likely also want to add FileIO.jl to your environment:

```r
pkg> add FileIO
```

Then, after running `using FileIO`, you can use the `save` function to write output to a file with your chosen format, as in examples throughout the documentation.

## Quick start

Let's mock up a transmission line with two launchers and some bridges across the
transmission line. We begin by making a cell with a rectangle in it:

```@example 1
using DeviceLayout, DeviceLayout.PreferredUnits
using FileIO # You will have to add FileIO to the environment if you haven't already

cr = Cell("rect", nm)
r = centered(Rectangle(20μm, 40μm))
render!(cr, r, GDSMeta(1, 0))
save("units_rectonly.svg", cr; layercolors=Dict(0 => (0, 0, 0, 1), 1 => (1, 0, 0, 1)));
nothing; # hide
```

```@raw html
<img src="units_rectonly.svg" style="width:1in;"/>
```

A rectangle made with a width and height parameter will default to having its lower-left
corner at the origin. [`centered`](@ref) will return a rectangle that is centered about the origin
instead.

The rectangle is then rendered into the cell. `GDSMeta(1)` indicates the target GDSII layer. You
can also specify the GDSII datatype as a second argument, e.g. `GDSMeta(1,0)`.

In another cell, we make the transmission line with some launchers on both ends:

```@example 1
p = Path(μm)
sty = launch!(p)
straight!(p, 500μm, sty)
turn!(p, π / 2, 150μm)
straight!(p, 500μm)
launch!(p)
cp = Cell("pathonly", nm)
render!(cp, p, GDSMeta(0))
save("units_pathonly.svg", cp; layercolors=Dict(0 => (0, 0, 0, 1), 1 => (1, 0, 0, 1)));
nothing; # hide
```

```@raw html
<img src="units_pathonly.svg" style="width: 3in;"/>
```

Finally, let's put bridges across the feedline:

```@example 1
turnidx = Int((length(p) + 1) / 2) - 1 # the first straight segment of the path
simplify!(p, turnidx .+ (0:2))
attach!(
    p,
    CellReference(cr, Point(0.0μm, 0.0μm)),
    (40μm):(40μm):((pathlength(p[turnidx])) - 40μm),
    i=turnidx
)
c = Cell("decoratedpath", nm)
render!(c, p, GDSMeta(0))
save("units.svg", c; layercolors=Dict(0 => (0, 0, 0, 1), 1 => (1, 0, 0, 1)));
nothing; # hide
```

```@raw html
<img src="units.svg" style="width: 3in;"/>
```

You can save a `Cell` to a GDS file for lithography or an SVG for vector graphics by using
`save` with an appropriate extension:

```julia
save("/path/to/myoutput.gds", c)
save("/path/to/myoutput.svg", c)
```

SVG support is experimental, but it is used in generating the graphics you see in this documentation. If you use [the Julia REPL](https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/stdlib/REPL/#The-Julia-REPL) (read-eval-print loop) provided by the extension [Julia for Visual Studio Code](https://www.julia-vscode.org/),
rendered cells are previewed in a separate tab. If you use Jupyter/IJulia, rendered
cells are automatically returned as a result.

## Performance and workflow tips

[KLayout](https://www.klayout.de/) is a free (GPL v2+) GDS viewer/editor. It watches
its open files for changes, making it easy to use as a fast previewer alongside DeviceLayout.jl.

The recommended IDE for Julia is [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the [Julia for Visual Studio Code extension](https://www.julia-vscode.org/).

Since Julia has a just-in-time compiler, the first time code is executed may take much
longer than subsequent times in the same Julia session. This means that a lot of time will be wasted repeating
compilations if you run your DeviceLayout.jl code by calling a script from the command line each time,
like you might in other languages.

For readability, it is best to split up your CAD code into functions that have clearly named
inputs and perform a well-defined task. It is also best to avoid writing statements in global scope.
In other words, put most of your code in a function. Your CAD script should ideally look like the following:

```julia
# mycad.jl
using DeviceLayout, DeviceLayout.PreferredUnits, FileIO

function subroutine1()
    # render some thing
end

function subroutine2()
    # render some other thing
end

function main()
    # my cad code goes here: do all of the things
    subroutine1()
    subroutine2()
    return save("/path/to/out.gds", ...)
end

main() # execute main() at end of script.
```

In a typical workflow, you'll have a text editor open alongside a Julia REPL. You'll save the above code in a file (e.g., `mycad.jl`) and then run `include("mycad.jl")` from the Julia REPL to generate your pattern.
You'll iteratively revise `mycad.jl` and save your changes.
Subsequent runs should be several times faster than the first, if you `include` the file again from the same Julia session.

If you use a REPL started by the Julia for VS Code extension (`Alt+J Alt+O`), then objects that can be displayed graphically (`Cells` and `CoordinateSystems`) will be shown in a separate tab when returned by REPL execution. This display is not updated interactively with every command, but running `julia> my_cs` will show the latest version. You can zoom in and out to inspect details by holding `Command` (Mac) or `Alt` and scrolling.
